So let's get started with implementing authentication and one very important step towards that is that
we add a new screen to off screen which is the screen that should present a log in or sign up form which
the user can use to well log in or a sign up.
And therefore here in the off screen all important react from react.
And I'll also import some things from React Native because from there from React Native I want to have
the the scroll view because we'll build a forum and I want to make sure that users on all device sizes
can interact with it.
I will add a stylish sheet here and that should be it for now.
We can always add more if we need more.
We can also already include a view and the keyboard avoiding you I guess to make sure that all inputs
are always reachable.
Now speaking of inputs of course will add a form and therefore I will reuse the input component we built
in the forums section which I can find into components UI folder.
So make sure you watch this section to know what this component does and how we can manage a form with
it.
With that we can create you off screen component here which receives props and we can also create that
Stiles object with the style sheet the create method there.
And of course export the off screen like this.
Now obviously the question now also is how do we present this off screen how do we make sure that we
see this if we're not logged in.
Now that's something we'll refine for this module but to get started we can go to the navigator and
make sure that when the app launches we see that off screen and for this we can use a special new navigator
which we haven't used before which is specifically built for you could almost say for dis authentication
use case and that sticks creates which navigator function that helps us there.
So it creates such a switch navigator the special thing about this navigator is that it always displays
exactly one screen and you can't go back to to another screen if you then navigate to a different one.
So going back is explicitly not allowed which is exactly what we want because you shouldn't be able
to go back to the log in screen if you did just log in.
So they offer here at the bottom of the file I'll create a new navigator maybe my main navigator the
name is Said hoodie up to you of course with create switch navigator and justice before this navigator
takes an argument where we can figure it so an object where we configure it and there I want to bind
my off screen and also of course my shop stack there after no to have a nice header I will also create
my off navigator here which is a stack navigator created with create stack navigator and in there I'll
just map the off screen which I just started working on and for this of course we need to import it.
So in that shop navigator J has file we can import off screen from screens off is user off screen like
this.
And with that import added If we go down we map this here too often the off navigator and the off navigator
and then maps two off here in the switch navigator and shop is of course mapped to the shop navigator.
And now it's the main Navigator which we wrap with create app container and therefore with that if we
saved us we will actually rendered you off screen as the first screen which right now will not render
any valid J as x.
So we get an error but we can work on that of course because they're the goal now is to render dis authentication
screen where we can well log in and do our thing so here I want to present these inputs and I'll actually
also import the card component from components UI card to have this nice card look here and have my
inputs in there and of course this is totally optional but here I'll add it here I'll add the card and
in the card we can add to the scroll view so that we can scroll inside of that card of course you could
also add the scrolled you around the card so that you can scroll on the overall screen but I'll do it
like this also add my own style here to the card which I'll name off contain or maybe name is totally
up to you and I'll all the wrap a view around all of that here as a wrapping view where I will add a
style which I'll name screen actually here we can already use the keyboard avoiding you I guess with
a behavior of padding and then this vertical keyboard vertical offset off let's say 50 so now instead
of deads drove you here which we have in our card we can start adding the inputs the customer input
we built earlier in the course for example here and input with the IDF email and a label of email because
there I want to fetch thee well user email address and therefore do keyboard type of email dash address
which is supported both on ISIS and Android.
It should also be required and I want to use the email validator these are two of the validation functionalities
I built into the input earlier and this course also auto capitalized should be turned off so I'll set
a non because capitalized in the email address is really not helpful and the error message I want to
show if we have something wrong and there is please enter a valid email address something like that.
Now when the value changes so on value change we want to do something but for now I'll not do anything
here.
Just provide a empty function so that we don't get an error in the initial value which I want to show
Well that's just an empty string.
In the end because I don't want to provide any other initial value.
Now of course it's not the only input so I'll repeat this because I also need a password input here
with a label of password and keyboard type here should be default because I want you off the normal
text keyword.
But I want to obscurity input sort of we can't see it.
And that can be done by adding to secure text entry here.
This is of course not a prop supported by my custom component.
But keep in mind that in this component we forward all props to the built in text input and the built
in text input supports this secure text entry property here.
So that's why I can set this here.
The validation should also not check for that being an email address but make sure that we have a min
length of let's say five characters auto capitalization can be turned off here as well.
Error message would be Please enter a valid password and with that I just saw that here of course I
have a typo that should be email address here password and I'll leave this here as it is
now in order to be able to submit this.
I also need a button so here I will import button from HREOC native and add two buttons actually in
the card.
And therefore also instead of the scroll view the first button has a title of log in let's say and will
later switched us to be evil or log in or sign up depending on the mode we're in and the color is important
towards is added with the help of the colors constant which you should import in all these colors constant.
I will use colors dot primary and on press at the moment can simply point at an empty function and I
will repeat this because I won't have a second button where I say switch to sign up and of course this
will alter then later say switch to log in if we are in sign up mode and there we can maybe use our
AXON color if we now say that we should have a basic log in screen.
Here it is doesn't look the way it should look but we have our inputs here.
We have these two buttons.
Also on Android once this is done loading.
Here we go.
And now of course I like to stylus appropriately.
So let's go down to the style sheet.
And please note I have two styles in the end assigned screen and off container so here into styles I
want to add both screen and off container.
These are the two styles I plan on working with now for the screen all set flex to one and then justify
my content in the center and align the items in the center to have centering both on the vertical and
horizontal axis.
And on the off container I want to set a width of let's say 80 percent to not take the full available
width and a max with actually a 400 pixels in case 80 percent would be more than that we restricted
to 400 pixels and maybe a height of let's say 50 percent but a max height of all the 400.
Let's see how that looks like.
We saved this.
This is what I get here.
Now I can scroll in there because I setup such a scroll view and actually that's not the behavior I
want.
I'll not set a height here.
I'll just add a max height so that this is capped at a certain height.
But by default it just takes as much height as required and therefore I Robert instead.
Add some padding so that we have some space around the inputs and it doesn't sit on the edge of the
card.
So this looks much nicer and let's see how that looks like on Android Yeah.
Looks generally OK.
If I tap in there does all the scrolls up.
So to keyboard avoiding you is doing its job but of course I still get an error here that on input change
is causing an error because yeah I added on value change here.
That should be on input change not on value change.
So that's a little fix but we're heading in the right direction.
Now I'm not done though I want to have a header title.
And how about some background color here that would also be nice probably.
So for that regarding the header title of course we can add offscreen dot navigation options and work
with some static options for now because I just want to add a header title here and set this to please
authenticate or just authenticate something like that.
And for the background.
Well of course we could give our view here which holds everything a background color.
But I actually want to show you a new component which we haven't used thus far for this we need to install
a brand new package and that's the expo dash linear gradient package which you installed with NPM installed
dash dash save Expo linear gradient.
This is a package which allows us to add a linear gradient with ease.
So in a very simple way.
And after this has been installed you just need to install at just import from X bowl in your gradient
and you do import a component which does exposes the linear gradient component.
Now that's a component which you can use in your page and here all use it inside of the keyboard avoiding
view linear gradient like this and wrap it around all the other content like this here and now you can
configure that.
And there I want to make sure that this has a color is key which allows us to set the colors but we
should transition because a gradient is simply a a gradient between multiple colors at least two.
But you can't add more and there you can now just add colors like red or by adding the hex codes.
And I want to transition between f f EDF F and let's say an amber hex code F F E free f f and of course
you can experiment with different colors here.
Now we also need to add a style here and I will named as styles gradient which we can now add down here
and this gradient will take a width of 100 percent and a height of 100 percent so we'll take all the
width and height it can get does this same for how it looks like.
But now we have a problem.
Of course our content isn't centered anymore to ensure that this is the case.
We now need to add justified content in the line items again and deal for a here on the surrounding
screen.
We can't get rid of that.
Now we have the same look as before.
Obviously we can therefore also achieve this by not setting width and height but just flex one.
So now with this setup here and it's important that the screen doesn't try to center because otherwise
degraded will be centered.
But with this setup we now have this look with this nice gradient and to see our header title here we
just need to make sure that in the navigation setup in the shop navigator we assign our default navigation
props to the off Navigator.
So I'll add the second argument to create stack navigator and default navigation options just points
at default nap options which sets up the header coloured headed hydra color ends on
of course make sure you have no typo here and you off screen navigation options in the off screen as
I do.
So is that fixed does this the setup we have here of course you can experiment with the colors and use
different colors if you prefer that I'm happy with that.
And now the only remaining thing I want to fix here is my styling for the buttons some spacing around
them would be nice and that can easily be added by wrapping the buttons in views here both buttons actually
so do this here and now give each view style here maybe styles button container duties on the first
view and on the second view.
And now we can give that button container a styling down there in the style sheet.
And here we can set a margin top for example of 10 to make sure that every button has a little margin
to to top so that the buttons don't sit directly next to each other which I think really would help
our buttons.
So this looks good on I.
Let's also check it out on Android.
Yeah this doesn't look too bad.
So it's that we have the basic setup now let's make sure that this also does something useful in that
we do actually try to log in with that.